# Homework 2

**Ben Lirio**

**Feb-22 2021**

> I pledge my honor that I have abided by the Stevens Honor System.

Syntax:

The following **H = Heads** followed by a **P(H)** can be interpreted as "The probability heads occures"

## Problem 1

**S = Small**

**M = Medium**
 
**L = Large**
 
**R = Regular**
 
**D = Decaf**

a) What is the probability the the individual purchased a small cup?

> P(S)
> 
> = P(SR) + P(SD)
> 
> = 14% + 20%
> 
> = 34%
> 
> What is the probability of a decaf cup?
> 
> P(D)
> 
> = P(SD) + P(MD) + P(LD)
> 
> = 20% + 10% + 10% 
>
> = **40%**

b) Given that the individual purchased a small cup, to find the probability that they select a decaf cup can be solved as follows:

> P(D|S) =
> 
> = P(D $\cap$ S) / P(S)
> 
> = 20% / 34%
> 
> = **58.823%**
> 
> Interpretation:
> 
> Small cups of coffe are more likey to contain decaf than other sizes

c) If we know that the cup of coffe was decaf the probability it is also small is:

> P(S|D) =

> = P(S $\cap$ D) / P(D)

> = 20% / 40%

> = **50%**

> Interpretation: P(S|D) is 10% more likely than just P(S)
   
## Problem 2

**A = Manufactured in the U.S.**

**B = Has an icemaker**

**C = Purchased extended warenty**

**P(A) = .75**

**P(B|A) = .9**

**P(B|A') = .8**

**P(C|A $\cap$ B) = .8**

**P(C|A $\cap$ B') = .6**

**P(C|A' $\cap$ B) = .7**

**P(C|A' $\cap$ B') = .3**

a) IMAGE ATTACHED

b) Compute P(A $\cap$ B $\cap$ C). Meaning the slected refrigerator buyer satisfies all three events. They purchased the extended warenty and included an icemaker all of which was manufactored in the U.S. Here is the probability:

> P(A $\cap$ B $\cap$ C)
> 
> = P(A) $\times$ P(B|A) $\times$ P(C|A $\cap$ B)
> 
> = .75 $\times$ .9 $\times$ .8
> 
> = **.54**

c) Compute P(B $\cap$ C). This means the probability that the purchased refrigerator has and icemaker and is purchased with and extended warenty.

> P(B $\cap$ C)
> 
> = P((B $\cap$ C $\cap$ A') $\cup$ (B $\cap$ C $\cap$ A)) =
> 
> = .75 $\times$ .9 $\times$ .8 + .25 $\times$ .8 $\times$ .7
> 
> = **0.68**

d) Calculate P(C). Probability that the refrigerator was purchased with an extended warenty. This can be done by tracing all the routes to C and multipling probabilites along the way. All events are disjoint so adding all the routes is valid.


> = P(A) $\times$ P(B|A) $\times$ P(C|A $\cap$ B) +
> 
> P(A) $\times$ P(B'|A) $\times$ P(C|A $\cap$ B') +
> 
> P(A') $\times$ P(B|A') $\times$ P(C|A' $\cap$ B) +
> 
> P(A') $\times$ P(B'|A') $\times$ P(C|A' $\cap$ B')
> 
> = .75 $\times$ .9 $\times$ .8 + 
> 
> .75 $\times$ .1 $\times$ .6 +
> 
> .25 $\times$ .8 $\times$ .7 +
> 
> .25 $\times$ .2 $\times$ .3
> 
> = .54 + .045 + .14 + .015
> 
> = **0.74**
   
   
e) Compute P(A|B $\cap$ C), the probability of a U.S. purchase given that an icemaker and extened warranty are also purchased.

> P(A|B $\cap$ C)
> 
> = P(A $\cap$ B $\cap$ C) / P(B $\cap$ C)
> 
> = P(A $\cap$ B $\cap$ C) / (P(A) * P(B|A) * P(C|A $\cap$ B) + P(A') * P(B|A') * P(C|A' $\cap$ B))
> 
> = .54 / .68
> 
> = **0.79418**

## Problem 3

Because of independence I am assuming P(A|B) = P(A), hence P(A $\cap$ B) = P(A) $\times$ P(B).


**A1 = Reciever works**

**A2 = Speaker works**

**A3 = CD playter works**

**A(A1) = .95**
 
**P(A2) = .98**

**P(A3) = .80**

a) All three components function properly throughout the warranty period. Interpreted as P(A1 $\cap$ A2 $\cap$ A3).

> P(A1 $\cap$ A2 $\cap$ A3)
> 
> = P(A1) $\times$ P(A2) $\times$ P(A3)
> 
> = .95 $\times$ .98 $\times$ .80
> 
> = 0.7448

b) At least one of the components needs service during the warranty period

> P(A1' $\cup$ A2' $\cup$ A3')
>
> = P(A1 $\cap$ A2 $\cap$ A3)'
>
> = 1 - P(A1 $\cap$ A2 $\cap$ A3)
>
> = 1 - .7748
>
> = **0.2552**


c) All three componenets need service during the warrenty period

> P(A1' $\cap$ A2' $\cap$ A3')
>
> = P(A1') $\times$ P(A2') $\times$ P(A3')
>
> = .05 $\times$ .02 $\times$ .2
>
> = **0.0002**

d) Only the reciever needs service during the warranty period

> P(A1' $\cap$ A2 $\cap$ A3)
>
> = P(A1') $\times$ P(A2) $\times$ P(A3)
>
> = .05 $\times$ .98 $\times$ .8
>
> = **0.0392**

f) Exatly one of the componenets needs service

> (A1' $\cap$ A2 $\cap$ A3) + P(A2' $\cap$ A1 $\cap$ A3) + P(A3' $\cap$ A1 $\cap$ A2)

> .05 $\times$ .98 $\times$ .8 + .02 $\times$ .95 $\times$ .80 + .20 $\times$ .95 $\times$ .98

> **.233**

d) Function during warranty the one fails within a month. The probabilies are not supplied in the question so I give a range.

> P(A1 $\cap$ A2 $\cap$ A3) $\times$ P(?|P(A1 $\cap$ A2 $\cap$ A3))
>
> = **less than 0.7448 greater than or equal to 0**

## Problem 4

**A1 = likes vehical #1**

**A2 = likes vehical #2**

**A3 = likes vehical #3**

**P(A1) = .55**

**P(A2) = .65**

**P(A3) = .70**

**P(A1 $\cup$ A2) = .80**

**P(A2 $\cap$ A3) = .40**

**P(A1 $\cup$ A2 $\cup$ A3) = .88**

a) An individual likes both vehicle #1 and vehicle #2. Means P(A1 $\cap$ A2).

> P(A1 $\cap$ A2)
> 
> = P(A1) + P(A2) - P(A1 $\cup$ A2)
> 
> = .55 + .65 - .80 
> 
> = **0.4**

b) Determine and interpret P(A2|A3)

> P(A2|A3)
> 
> = P(A2 $\cap$ A3) / P(A3)
>  
> = .40 / .70
> 
> = **0.571**
> 
> Knowing an individual likes A3 increases the odds they like A2

c) Are P(A2) and P(A3) independent. Answer two ways

> No, in both cases
>
> P(A2) != P(A2|A3)
> 
> **.65 != .571**
>
> Also, P(A1 $\cap A2) != P(A1) $\times$ P(A2)
>
>
> **0.4 != .3575**

d) The customer did not like vehical #1. Now, what is the probability that they liked at least one of the other two vehicles. Thinking about this prblem using area this is the area that satisfies the event P(A1 $\cup$ A2 $\cup$ A3) - P(A1). The total area left after the cutomer did not like vehical #1 is 1 - P(A). Now we just divide the valid area by the total left.

> (.88 - .55) / (1 - .55)
> 
> 
> = **0.733**
